= Dijkstra gem

This gem solves the shortest path problem using Dijkstra's alghoritm. It calculates the shortest path and distance between the given start vertex and any other.

Suppose you have an undirected graph with 5 vertexes and non-negative values as distances between them. You can represent it as a matrix:

  | inf |  2  |  1  | inf | inf
  |  2  | inf |  4  |  6  | inf
  |  1  |  4  | inf |  1  |  2
  | inf |  6  |  1  | inf |  3
  | inf | inf |  2  |  3  | inf

where _inf_ means no direct connection between vertexes.

In Ruby we can store it as an array:

  input = [
    [nil, 2,   1,   nil, nil],
    [2,   nil, 4,   6,   nil],
    [1,   4,   nil, 1,   2],
    [nil, 6,   1,   nil, 3],
    [nil, nil, 2,   3,   nil]  
  ]

Next, you should choose start vertex for which calculations will be made. For example 0:

  result = Dijkstra.shortest_path(input, 0)

Result stores the shortest path and its distance:
  result.path(4) => [0,2,4]
  result.distance(4) => 3

== Contributing to dijkstra
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Grzegorz Miklaszewski. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

